# How to localize

1. Translate the messages in the `public/manifest.json` file. Do not
   forget to set the correct values for the "lang" and "dir"
   properties.

2. Translate the strings in the `src/messages.ts` file. The comments
   in this file can be helpful.

3. In the `public/index.html` file, change the `<html lang="en">` tag
   to represent the language you are translating to. For right-to-left
   languages, add `dir="rtl"`. Also, do not forget to translate the
   content of the `<title></title>` tag.

   Note that to use a different font, you will need to change the
   default font in the `<body style="font-family: Roboto">` tag, edit
   the various `@font-face` directives in the `public/global.css`
   file, add the font files to the `public/fonts/` directory, and
   include the paths to those files in the `appFiles` array in the
   `public/sw.js` file. Also, you may need to find and replace the
   references to "Cutive Mono" and "Roboto Mono" fonts in some of the
   `.svelte` files.

4. Find all `.svelte` files and translate the user messages contained
   in them. Sometimes the messages are generated by JavaScript
   functions, in which case you will need to change the strings that
   those function return. Also, pay attention to the lines starting
   with `$:` -- they sometimes contain strings that need to be
   translated. Here is a list of other things too look for, that are
   easy to miss:

   - `<Page title="`
   - `label="`
   - `<Title`
   - `<DialogTitle`
   - `<Content`
   - `<Card`
   - `Label>`
   - `<Radio`
   - `<HelperText`
   - `<Text>`
   - `<span slot="label">`

   To change the way dates and times are shown, find the places where
   the `toLocaleString()` method is called for dates, and pass your
   locale as a parameter (`toLocaleString('bg-BG')` for example).

   Note that for right-to-left languages some changes to pages' HTML
   and CSS may be needed for all pages to show correctly.

5. In the untranslated version, the amounts are represented using the
   symbols `0-9`, "\u202F" (narrow no-break space) as thousands
   separator, a locale-dependent decimal separator, and an optional
   sign prefix. If the way numbers are preferably represented in the
   target language is different, you may change the implementation of
   the `amountToLocaleString` function in the `src/utils.ts` file.
